# Internals of Speeding Up Pyspark with Arrow

Presentation I ([@berenguel](https://twitter.com/berenguel)) gave at the [PyBCN
meetup](https://www.meetup.com/python-185/) on June 2018, [Spark
London](https://www.meetup.com/Spark-London/) on September 2018, [Spark
Barcelona](https://www.meetup.com/Spark-Barcelona/) and [Spark Summit Europe
2019](https://databricks.com/session_eu19/internals-of-speeding-up-pyspark-with-arrow)
to explain how Spark 2.3/2.4 has optimised UDFs for Pandas use as well as how
PySpark works. A recording of this talk (the one given in Python Barcelona, in
English) is available [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=698441URsrc), the
recording from Spark Summit should be available soon. You can find the slides
[here](https://github.com/rberenguel/pyspark-arrow-pandas/raw/master/pyspark.pdf)
(some images might look slightly blurry). I recommend you check the version with
[presenter
notes](https://github.com/rberenguel/pyspark-arrow-pandas/raw/master/pyspark-with-notes.pdf)
which is only available here.

If you want additional information about Spark in general, I gave an
introduction to Spark talk with [Carlos Pe√±a](http://twitter.com/crafty_coder)
that you can find [here](https://github.com/rberenguel/WelcomeToApacheSpark).

---

This presentation is formatted in Markdown and prepared to be used with
[Deckset](https://www.decksetapp.com/). The drawings were done on an iPad Pro
using [Procreate](https://procreate.art). **Here only the final PDF and the
source Markdown are available**. Sadly the animated gifs are just static images
in the PDF.

---

You can find an exported version using [reveal.js](http://revealjs.com) of the
version given at Spark Summit
[here](https://rberenguel.github.io/pyspark-arrow-pandas/pyspark.html#/). It is
not 100% faithful to the PDF/Deckset version but is close enough (and animated
gifs play). The export was generated with
[this](https://github.com/rberenguel/awkrdeck) and tweaked to add a footer.

---

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/rberenguel" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-orange.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="51" width="217"></a>

---

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rberenguel/pyspark-arrow-pandas/master/Images/PresentingSAIS.jpg)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rberenguel/pyspark-arrow-pandas/master/Images/Presenting.jpg)


